# Bamazon-9000

This repository consists of two command-line applications that allow users to interact with an online store called 'Bamazon' - bamazonCustomer.js allows users to search for and buy items from the store, while bamazonManager.js allows Bamazon managers to view full information on items and add items to the inventory.

## How to use
The repository can be cloned by clicking the Clone or Download button on the main repository page, then clicking the button next to the url which appears below. Then open a Terminal or Git Bash window, navigate to the location where you want to place the cloned repository, then type 'git clone' and then paste the repository that was just copied. The user can then type 'node bamazonCustomer.js' or 'node bamazonManager.js' to run the Bamazon Customer and Bamazon Manager applications, respectively.

### Bamazon Customer
After, the user types 'node bamazonCustomer.js', he or she will be directed to the homescreen, with a list of all products in stock, including the product id, name, and price. The user is then given a choice to either choose a product by its id, or to search by department in order to narrow the search further, and can navigate to an option and select it using the directional arrows. If the user selects 'choose product by id', the program displays the message 'Please input the id of the product you would like to purchase.' After the user inputs the product id number, the program will ask 'How many would you like to purchase?', prompting the user to input the quantity requested. The program will then output the name of the item requested, the unit price, and the total price for the user's purchase, as calculated by multiplying the quantity of the item purchased by the unit price. It will then ask if the user would like to purchase another item. If the user select 'n' or 'no', the program will display a message saying 'Thank you for visiting Bamazon. Have a great day!' and ends. But if the user selects 'y' or 'yes', the program will once again return to the homescreen.

On the homescreen, if the user selects 'search by department', the program will show a list of the departments - 'Food and Beverage', 'Kitchen and Dining', 'Home and Garden', 'Toys', 'Electronics', and 'Sporting and Outdoor Goods.' Clicking on a department will show the user all of the items in that department. The user will then be given two more options - 'choose a product' or 'start over.' Clicking 'start over' will once again direct the user to the homescreen. Meanwhile, selecting 'choose a product' will again prompt the user to input the id of the item from the options shown, and then the quantity requested. Once again, the user will be asked if he or she would like to purchase another item and will either redirect to the homescreen if the user selects 'y' or 'yes' or display a goodbye message if the user selects 'n' or 'no'. For every purchase, the quantity that the user purchases is subtracted from the quanity in the Bamazon database.

### Bamazon Manager

that utilze the inquirer and mysql npms to allow users to interact with the Bamazon database. The first, bamazonCustomer.js, allows users to select the item they want to buy by id, as well as the quantity that they want of that item. It tells the user the final cost of his or her purchase and then updates the quantity in the database to reflect the purchase. The second application, Bamazon.js allows Bamazon managers to carry out four different commands. Managers can view all items currently in inventory, view items that are low in quantity, add to the quantity of certain items, and add a new item entirely.
